skip components if not enabled (#756)
cloudposse/atmos: website/docs/core-concepts/stacks/define-components.mdx

  <dt>`abstract`</dt>
  <dd>An `abstract` component is more like a blueprint. It can’t be deployed on its own. Instead, it’s a base configuration that needs to be extended or inherited by other components. This is similar to an ["abstract base classes"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_type) in programming—it defines reusable configurations, but it’s not complete enough to be deployed directly.</dd>
</dl>

> ### Skipping Components with `metadata.enabled`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disabling Components with `metadata.enabled`
```

> The `metadata.enabled` parameter allows for conditional inclusion of components. By default, components are enabled. When `metadata.enabled` is set to `false`, the component is completely skipped during deployment - no workspace is created and no Terraform commands are executed. This differs from `vars.enabled: false`, which still processes the component but may result in resource deletion. This feature is particularly useful for temporarily disabling components without removing their configurations.

Reviewer: I think we need to clarify that vars.enabled is a Cloud Posse convention when designing components. We implement in our components and modules an enabled feature flag, that toggles whether or not the resources are created or destroyed. This has nothing to do with atmos and atmos behavior is not controlled by any vars.

Author: commited your suggestion

> The `metadata.enabled` parameter allows for conditional inclusion of components. By default, components are enabled. When `metadata.enabled` is set to `false`, the component is completely skipped during deployment - no workspace is created and no Terraform commands are executed. This differs from `vars.enabled: false`, which still processes the component but may result in resource deletion. This feature is particularly useful for temporarily disabling components without removing their configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `metadata.enabled` parameter controls whether a component is included in deployment. By default, components are enabled. Setting `metadata.enabled` to `false` skips the component entirely—no workspace is created, and no Terraform commands are executed. Disabling a component does not cause deletion. It just signals that it's no longer managed by Atmos.

<Note>
This should not be confused with [Cloud Posse's conventions and best practices](/best-practices/terraform/) of having modules and components define a [Terraform input named `enabled`](/best-practices/terraform/#use-feature-flags-list-or-map-inputs-for-optional-functionality). This is a general convention and `vars.enabled` not a special variable. Atmos does not treat it differently from any other variable.
</Note>
```

**Example**:
```yaml
# Disable a component in a specific environment
components:
  terraform:
    vpc:
      metadata:
        type: real
        enabled: false
      vars:
        name: primary-vpc
```

> This enables flexible deployment configurations, ensuring that only the intended components are active in each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `metadata.enabled` flag makes it easy to ensure that only the intended components are active in each environment.
```
